---
layout: post
title: 文学
category: linux
---
mac 终端 使用ftp命令
1. 连接ftp服务器

　　格式：ftp [hostname| ip-address]

　　a)ftp ftp.drivehq.com

　　b)服务器询问你用户名和口令，输入后即可。

2. 下载文件

　　下载文件通常用get和mget这两条命令。

　　a) get

　　格式：get [remote-file] [local-file]

　　将单个文件从远端主机中传送至本地主机中.

　　b) mget　　　　　　

　　格式：mget [remote-files]

　　将多个文件从远端主机中传送至本地主机中.

　　如要获取服务器上Cahce目录下的所有文件,则

　　ftp&gt; cd /rCache

　　ftp&gt; mget *.* 

3.上传文件

　　a) put

　　格式：put local-file [remote-file]

　　将本地主机中一个文件传送至远端主机.

　　b) mput

　　将本地主机中一批文件传送至远端主机.

　　如要把本地当前目录下所有odt文件上传到服务器Doc目录下

　　ftp&gt; cd /Doc 

　　ftp&gt; mput *.odt

4. 断开连接

　　bye：中断与服务器的连接。

　　ftp&gt; bye

另：默认的本地目录是home。


ftp: This command starts the FTP command line interface session. You can tell that you’re in the FTP client application when you see ftp> as your command prompt. This is where you type all other FTP commands to do things.

open: This command is used to start your connection to another computer. Type this command followed by the IP address of the FTP server that you want to connect to.

ls: Use this command to see a listing of all files and folders in the current folder on the FTP server.

cd: This command allows you to change the folder that you’re in. Type cd <folder> (where folder is a specific folder name) to move into a subfolder on the FTP server. Type cd .. (that’s c, d, space, and two periods) to go back out a folder level.

lcd: This command acts exactly like cd except that it changes the folder that you’re currently in on your local system, not the FTP server. Use this command to put yourself in the folder on the local drive that you want to transfer files to and from.

bin: Type this command to get in binary mode to transfer files that aren’t plain-text files. (Always use binary mode unless you’re specifically transferring plain-text files.)

ascii: This command puts you in ASCII mode for transferring text files.

get or mget: To retrieve a single file, use the get command followed by the filename of the file that you want to retrieve. If you want to get multiple files at one time, use the mget command followed by a filename, possibly containing * and/or ? as wildcards.

put or mput: To send a single file, use the put command followed by the filename to send a file to the FTP server. To send multiple files, use the mput command followed by a filename, possibly containing * and/or ? as wildcards.

quit: Use the quit command to end your FTP session.

To end a Terminal session and exit Terminal at any time, press Command+Q. Terminal prompts you for confirmation if necessary.

Using these commands will enable you to exchange files with an FTP server. Here’s an example of how to use these commands within the Terminal window:

Type ftp to get into FTP mode.

Type open <ip address> (where ip address is the server’s network IP address) to open your connection to the FTP server.

At this point, you’re asked for a username and password.

For many FTP servers, using the username anonymous and your e-mail address as the password is enough to get you logged in. Some sites even allow you to log in without any username or password at all. On secure sites, however, you must use an assigned username and password provided by the administrator of that particular server.

Type lcd <folder> (where folder is a specific folder name) to change into the folder on your local drive that you want files to come to or from.

Type the ls and cd commands to place yourself into the desired folder on the FTP server.

Type the ascii or bin command to set your file transfer mode to ASCII or binary, respectively.

This is important because choosing the wrong type will likely cause the transfer to fail. Unless it’s a plain-text file, always use binary mode.

Type the get, mget, put, and mput commands to send or receive the desired files.

Type the quit command to close the connection and exit the FTP session.